---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "tfcoremock Provider"
description: |-
  The tfcoremock provider is intended to aid with testing the Terraform core libraries and the Terraform CLI. This provider should allow users to define all possible Terraform configurations and run them through the Terraform core platform.
  The provider supplies two static resources:
  tfcoremock_simple_resourcetfcoremock_complex_resource
  Users can then define additional dynamic resources by supplying a dynamic_resources.json file alongside their root Terraform configuration. These dynamic resources can be used to model any Terraform configuration not covered by the provided static resources.
  By default, all resources created by the provider are then converted into a human-readable JSON format and written out to the resource directory. This behaviour can be disabled by turning on the use_only_state flag in the provider schema (this is useful when running the provider in a Terraform Cloud environment). The resource directory defaults to terraform.resource.
  All resources supplied by the provider (including the simple and complex resource as well as any dynamic resources) are duplicated into data sources. The data sources should be supplied in the JSON format that resources are written into. The provider looks into the data directory, which defaults to terraform.data.
  All resources (and data sources) supplied by the provider have an id attribute that is generated if not set by the configuration. Dynamic resources cannot define an id attribute as the provider will create one for them. The id attribute is used as name of the human-readable JSON files held in the resource and data directories.
  The provider also supports actions (introduced in Terraform v1.14). All resources (both static and dynamic) are made available as action blocks, that can be plugged into any Terraform configuration. Unlike resources and data sources, actions have no id associated with them as they are not written to disk.
---

# tfcoremock Provider

The `tfcoremock` provider is intended to aid with testing the Terraform core libraries and the Terraform CLI. This provider should allow users to define all possible Terraform configurations and run them through the Terraform core platform.

The provider supplies two static resources:

- `tfcoremock_simple_resource`
- `tfcoremock_complex_resource`
 
Users can then define additional dynamic resources by supplying a `dynamic_resources.json` file alongside their root Terraform configuration. These dynamic resources can be used to model any Terraform configuration not covered by the provided static resources.

By default, all resources created by the provider are then converted into a human-readable JSON format and written out to the resource directory. This behaviour can be disabled by turning on the `use_only_state` flag in the provider schema (this is useful when running the provider in a Terraform Cloud environment). The resource directory defaults to `terraform.resource`.

All resources supplied by the provider (including the simple and complex resource as well as any dynamic resources) are duplicated into data sources. The data sources should be supplied in the JSON format that resources are written into. The provider looks into the data directory, which defaults to `terraform.data`.

All resources (and data sources) supplied by the provider have an `id` attribute that is generated if not set by the configuration. Dynamic resources cannot define an `id` attribute as the provider will create one for them. The `id` attribute is used as name of the human-readable JSON files held in the resource and data directories.

The provider also supports actions (introduced in Terraform v1.14). All resources (both static and dynamic) are made available as action blocks, that can be plugged into any Terraform configuration. Unlike resources and data sources, actions have no `id` associated with them as they are not written to disk.

## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "tfcoremock" {
  resource_directory = "terraform.resource"
  data_directory     = "terraform.data"
  use_only_state     = false
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `data_directory` (String) The directory that the provider should use to read the human-readable JSON files for each requested data source. Defaults to `data.resource`.
- `defer_changes` (List of String) If set, any resources with an ID in this list will have any changes deferred during the plan phase.
- `fail_on_create` (List of String) If set, any resources with an ID in this list will fail during the create phase.
- `fail_on_delete` (List of String) If set, any resources with an ID in this list will fail during the delete phase.
- `fail_on_read` (List of String) If set, any resources with an ID in this list will fail during the read phase.
- `fail_on_update` (List of String) If set, any resources with an ID in this list will fail during the update phase.
- `resource_directory` (String) The directory that the provider should use to write the human-readable JSON files for each managed resource. If `use_only_state` is set to `true` then this value does not matter. Defaults to `terraform.resource`.
- `use_only_state` (Boolean) If set to true the provider will rely only on the Terraform state file to load managed resources and will not write anything to disk. Defaults to `false`.
